This is Gimp-Print version 4.1.99b4, the fourth beta release leading
up to the 4.2 stable release.  Gimp-print is the print facility for
the Gimp, and in addition a suite of drivers that may be used with
common UNIX spooling systems using GhostScript or CUPS.  These drivers
provide printing quality for UNIX/Linux in many cases equal to or
better than proprietary vendor-supplied drivers, and can be used for
many of the most demanding printing tasks.

Please read this README, and the NEWS file carefully!  Many things
have changed from previous releases.

A user's manual exists in doc/users_guide; it is normally installed in
PDF and HTML form in /usr/local/share/gimp-print/doc.  This manual
covers setup and use of the GIMP Print plug-in and the CUPS driver.


BASIC INSTALLATION

By default, Gimp-Print builds the Print plugin for the GIMP, and
nothing else.  If this isn't what you want, skip down to find the
installation option that you do want.

If you have downloaded a .tar.gz file (tarball), you should follow
these directions.

To build and install the Gimp Print plug-in:

./configure
make
make install

This installs two programs: the print plugin itself (named "print") in
your system Gimp plugin directory, and a utility named "escputil" for
performing head cleaning, nozzle alignment, and other tasks on Epson
Stylus inkjet printers.  Type "escputil" for a description of the
options and functionality.

Please check our web site at http://gimp-print.sourceforge.net for
details about what is and is not supported.

Please report any problems to gimp-print-devel@sourceforge.net.

If you have installed the Gimp as a precompiled package (e. g. from an
RPM), you will need to install the gimp-devel package as well as the
gimp package.  The gimp package as supplied in most distributions only
contains what's needed to run the Gimp.  The gimp-devel package
contains additional files required to actually build new plugins.  On
some systems, you will also need to install gtk-devel and glib-devel
packages as well.

If you have installed the Gimp from source on Linux: after running
make install, you must run ldconfig as root before attempting to build
this plugin.

Gimp-print 4.2 beta requires the Gimp 1.2.


CUPS

This package includes a CUPS driver that may be built, allowing use of
this software for general printing purposes.  To build and install the
CUPS driver, you must run:

./configure --with-cups
make
make install
/etc/software/init.d/cups restart

The last command varies with your operating system.  It is typically
/etc/init.d/cups, /etc/rc.d/cups, or even /etc/rc.d/init.d/cups.

Following this, you must reinstall any printers that you are using
Gimp-Print PPD's with.  Such printers may be identified in any CUPS
front end (e. g. KUPS, or via the web interface) because they look
something like this:

                EPSON Stylus Photo EX, CUPS+GIMP-print v4.1.99-b4(en)

If the version number (in this case, 4.1.99-b4) does not match the version
of Gimp-Print that you are installing, you must use Modify Printer to
force the new PPD file to get installed.  Failure to do so may lead to
incorrect output and/or other errors!

You may also have problems if you have a .lpoptions file that has old
options set.  If you have problems printing, please remove any
existing .lpoptions file in your home directory and try printing
again.

If you do not wish to build the Gimp Print plugin, you must run

./configure --with-cups --without-gimp

We recommend that all users who wish to use this package for general
purpose printing install CUPS and use that as their printing system,
rather than the traditional lpd or lp systems.  It is much simpler to
manage than lpd, and provides an excellent web-based interface for
both administration and use.  Please visit http://www.cups.org for
information on downloading and installing CUPS.


FOOMATIC

This package includes support for the Foomatic meta-driver package.
This requires the foomatic-xml distribution.  Foomatic is available
from http://www.linuxprinting.org/foomatic.html.  It is also available
in Debian unstable.  For best results, use the version in cvs.  The
first version of Foomatic (the one used with Gimp-Print 4.0) is not
compatible with Gimp-Print 4.2.  Note that the Foomatic driver is
named `stp' in Gimp-Print 4.0; in Gimp-Print 4.2 it is named
`gimp-print'.

To build the Foomatic data, you must run:

./configure --with-foomatic
make
make install

The "make install" step will add the necessary data to your Foomatic
installation.  It will not create the spooler-specific data files; to
do that, you must follow this procedure:

     - examine the output of `foomatic-configure -O', and find the
       foomatic ID for your printer.

     - Run foomatic-datafile with that printer ID, the driver name
       'gimp-print', and the spooler type you wish to use.
       foomatic-datafile -h explains how to run this program.  It will
       generate a foomatic filter datafile on stdout.

     - This datafile may then be used instead of the ones from the
       linxuprinting.org website.  Follow the instructions for your
       spooler from the website to install the data file and filter.

Note that it almost never makes sense to build the Foomatic driver
without also building the Ghostscript driver, even if Foomatic is to
be used with CUPS (CUPS-o-matic).  Please read the instructions below
in the GHOSTSCRIPT section.

If you do not wish to build the Gimp Print plugin, you must run

./configure --with-foomatic --without-gimp

Please visit http://www.linuxprinting.org/foomatic.html for more
information on Foomatic.

Foomatic provides an alternate interface to CUPS, in addition to an
interface to lpd and LPRng.


GHOSTSCRIPT

This package includes a Ghostscript driver that may be built, allowing
use of this software for general printing purposes.

We *strongly* recommend that end users not attempt to use this driver
directly.  The available options are very complex, and the standard
printer configuration tools (such as apsfilter and magicfilter) are
not designed for drivers such as Gimp-print, and do not provide a
convenient interface to the driver's capabilities.  We recommend that
end users either install CUPS, as described above, or use Foomatic to
configure printer queues.  CUPS is very easy to install, configure,
and use, and is the recommended solution.

Please read src/ghost/README for more information, including how to
build and install it, and available options; the build procedure here
merely creates the necessary source files that you must add to your
Ghostscript source.  The directions vary for different versions of
Ghostscript.  Only Ghostscript 5.10, 5.50, and 6.51 are currently
supported.  In particular, versions of Ghostscript that are not
licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPL) are not supported,
and this driver may not be distributed with such a version.

Note that many of the options to the Ghostscript driver are
incompatible with the options used prior to release 4.1.99-a3.  Please
read src/ghost/README for information on the current options.


RECOMMENDED SETTINGS

We recommend starting with all default settings for the slider
adjustments in the Color Adjustment window.  The settings can be
adjusted as necessary for particular combinations of ink, paper, and
subject material.

We recommend use of the Adaptive Hybrid dithering algorithm in most
cases.  Ordered dithering also works very well in many cases, and is
somewhat faster, but it does not work very well with text and very
fine details (certain kinds of line art), particularly at high
resolutions.  Fast dithering is also quite usable in many cases.

On most inkjet printers, 600 or 720 dpi will produce very high
quality; 1200x1200 or 1440x720 dpi will produce extremely high
quality.


SUPPORT

1) Read the FAQ, in doc/FAQ.html.  Your question may be answered
   there.

2) Read the user's manual, in doc/users_guide.

3) There are public forums on Sourceforge dedicated to this package.
   Please see http://sourceforge.net/forum/?group_id=1537 for more
   information.  The Help forum is a good source of information.

4) If you have a technical support issue that does not appear to be a
   bug in the software, you can use the Tech Support Manager.  Please
   see http://sourceforge.net/support/?group_id=1537.

5) If you have found a clear bug in the package, you may file a bug
   report at http://sourceforge.net/bugs/?group_id=1537.

6) You may send mail to the gimp-print-devel@sourceforge.net mailing
   list.  This is recommended as a last resort only.


DEBIAN

The Debian packaging has been rewritten from scratch as of 4.1.4.  It
is compliant with Standards-Version 3.1.1, and is lintian-clean.  It
should build from source on woody and sid, but will not build on potato.
There are six separate packages:

gimp1.2-print		The GIMP Print plugin. Also contains HTML and SGML
			documentation that is registered with doc-base.
cupsys-driver-gimpprint The CUPS driver and PPD files.
libgimpprint1		The libgimpprint library (GIMP-Print core).
libgimpprint-dev	Headers, symlinks, m4 macro (AM_PATH_GIMPPRINT)
			and gimpprint-config needed to develop programs
			that link with libgimpprint.
libgimpprint-doc	Documentation in Info, dvi and HTML format.
escputil		The escputil printer tool.

The library symlinks will get packaged without any modification needed
to the debian packaging whatever library versioning scheme is
used.  Most packages depend on libgimpprint as this will provide
translations for i18n in the future that they will use, or they
require libgimpprint anyway.


USE OF THE CVS REPOSITORY

Please read doc/README.maintaining for instructions on how to build
from the CVS repository.
