This is the Print plugin for the Gimp, version 4.0a2.  This is the
second pre-release of the 4.0 stable release.  It is not 4.0.

This software also comes with a GhostScript driver.  The support for
printers in the GhostScript driver is identical to the support for
these printers in the Print plugin -- they use the identical code
base.  Please read Ghost/README for more information on this.

This plugin can be compiled against either Gimp 1.1 or 1.0.

Gimp-Print 4.0a2 contains the following improvements over Gimp-Print
4.0a1:

1) A serious bug in the handling of landscape mode (in the plugin
   only) has been fixed.

2) A new 360 dpi softweave mode has been added to the Epson driver for
   the variable drop size printers, which should yield improved
   quality.  It is reasonably well tuned on the 870.

3) Improved tonal smoothness in highly saturated red, green, and blue.

4) The Ghostscript driver produces more useful error messages if
   incorrect parameters are supplied.

5) The top margin of the Epson Stylus Color 850 should be correct
   now.  The printer is not capable of printing to the top of the
   page.

6) Ink levels have been fine tuned (not necessarily correctly) for
   newer Epson printers.

7) Work around some inlining problems with egcs 1.1.2.

ERRATA:

1) The PDQ and CUPS descriptor files are still not fixed.

2) While calibration should still be improved, there is doubtless much
   to go.

3) There have been sporadic reports of blank splotches or regions,
   apparently at the very darkest intensity.  This is not yet fully
   characterized.


Gimp-Print 4.0a1 contains the following improvements over Gimp-Print 3.1.9:

1) The Ghostscript driver has been extensively revised.  IN
   PARTICULAR, THE OPTIONS HAVE CHANGED TO A DEGREE MAKING IT
   IMPOSSIBLE FOR ANY USES OF THE OLD DRIVER FROM WORKING WITH THE NEW
   ONE.  Please read Ghost/README for a full explanation of the new
   options.

2) The Ghostscript driver now supports all printers supported by the
   Gimp plug-in, including PCL and Canon printers in addition to Epson
   Stylus inkjets.

3) Photo mode has had major improvements in its color generation in
   corner cases.  It is slower than it used to be, unfortunately.

4) The inks have been retuned for 6-color Epson printers; they should
   now better match those of 4-color printers.

5) It is now possible to print to the very edge of the top, left, and
   right on Epson Stylus 870 and 1270 printers.

6) An experimental CUPS driver is now in place in the Cups
   subdirectory.  It is not based on the current source base.  It will
   be redone before 4.0 release.

7) Printing near the top and bottom of the paper is substantially
   improved on Epson Stylus printers.

8) Printing on PCL printers is fixed.

9) Epson Stylus printers have more flexible tuning than previously,
   allowing specification of smaller dot sizes in some cases, which
   will yield better output quality.

10) Ghostscript driver bug whereby only half the page was printed in
   certain resolutions is now fixed.

11) Adaptive hybrid dithering is now the default.

ERRATA:

1) The PDQ and CUPS descriptor files are not updated for the latest
   change to the Ghostscript driver.

2) The Epson Stylus 850 apparently does not print to the very top of
   the page.

3) Not all printers have been fully calibrated, so color and density
   matching may be significantly off in some cases.  Also, for some
   printers it may be possible to use smaller dot sizes than
   currently, which will produce higher quality output.

4) Photograph image type is known to work improperly with at least
   EGCS 1.1.2, due to problems with inlining in that compiler.


Gimp-Print 3.1.9 contains the following improvements over Gimp-Print 3.1.8:

1) A bug in the GhostScript driver would cause the driver to go into
   an infinite loop on some systems with some printers, depending upon
   details of the compiler and so forth.  All users of the GhostScript
   driver should immediately update.

2) Substantial quality improvements across many printers:

   * Output across printers and resolution modes is much more closely
     matched (except probably 360 DPI).  The saturation may be
     somewhat less than before, however.

   * 720 DPI is greatly improved on Epson Stylus Color 860/1160 and
     Stylus Photo 870/1270.  The 750/1200 may not show this
     improvement.

   * Artifacts in the adaptive hybrid and adaptive random dithering
     modes have been eliminated.

Please see the README for more information.



Gimp-Print 3.1.8 contains the following improvements over 3.1.7:

1) The entries for printer model and paper size have been greatly
   improved.  There are many additional paper sizes offered.

2) Print quality using adaptive, hybrid, and ordered modes is improved
   at 1440x720 DPI.

3) The UI now offers a choice of metric or English units for
   measurements.

4) The print preview is much larger, affording easier viewing of the
   placement of the image.  An arrow is used to indicate the top of
   the paper, and the size of the arrow gives an indication of the
   actual paper size.

5) It is now possible to specify the output width or height directly.

6) Dragging the preview image with a button other than the left moves
   the image in units of points rather than screen pixels, affording
   finer placement control.

7) A new emulated 1440x2880 mode has been added for highest quality
   printing on Epson Stylus printers.  It is of most use on the Stylus
   Photo 750, 1200, 870, and 1270.

8) Experimental improvements for the Canon BJC-8200.

9) The plug-in should operate correctly with the plp spooling system.

10) Support for the Epson Stylus Photo 720 and Stylus Color 480.  Also
   correct the Stylus Color 860 and 1160 entries.

11) Support for the HP 540C printer.

12) Correct treatment of saturation adjustment, and allow saturation
   of 0.  This allows printing a color image in black and white using
   color inks for maximum smoothness.

13) Allow choice of four and six color printing on six color
   printers.  This is useful for economy (normal printing uses much
   more light cyan and magenta than dark), and may improve saturation
   for graphics.

14) Bug fixes for Ghostscript driver.  Also, Ghostscript driver now
    offers choice of ink type.

15) Some improvement in Epson Stylus Photo, Photo 700, and Photo EX
    output quality.


Gimp-Print 3.1.7 contains the following improvements over Gimp-Print 3.1.6:

1) Emergency GhostScript bug fix.

2) escputil program now retrieves ink level from the printer.


Gimp-Print 3.1.6 contains the following improvements over Gimp-Print 3.1.5:

1) Print speed has been greatly improved for sparse pages.  This will
   not help too much for images, but it will help greatly for text and
   other typical PostScript printing.

2) 3.1.5 turned out not to improve print quality over 3.1.4; in fact,
   there was some regression.  There has been some improvement over
   3.1.5, particularly for higher end printers.  1440x720 enhanced
   mode (which is computed as 1440x1440) using adaptive hybrid or
   adaptive random dithering appears to work best.

3) Microweave and 360 dpi positioning is now correct.

4) The Lexmark 4076 is now supported (as a PCL printer).

5) The preview window now notes the size of the image in addition to
   the position.

6) The code now uses much less memory at high quality settings.

7) Perturbed ordered dithering has been removed.

8) An experimental program to perform nozzle check, head cleaning, and
   head alignment is now included.  This is potentially dangerous, so
   read the accompanying help information carefully before performing
   head alignment!

9) The Ghostscript driver now correctly handles -r1440x720.

10) The PDQ support has been updated, and a CUPS .ppd file added
   (these are not tested).


Gimp-Print 3.1.5 contains the following improvements over Gimp-Print 3.1.4:

1) Greatly improved print quality.  In particular, ordered dithering
   and adaptive dithering methods are now much better than ever
   before.  We recommend ordered dithering for four-color printers and
   either adaptive hybrid or adaptive random dithering for six-color
   printers.

2) If a print job is canceled from within the Gimp, the partial file
   will not be sent to the printer.

3) Support for additional Canon and Hewlett-Packard printers.

4) Epson Stylus printers can now print much closer to the edge of the
   page.  They can print to the extreme top edge and much closer to
   the bottom than before, although there is some loss in quality
   close to the edge.

5) Greatly improved black quality.

6) The preview window now shows the borders of the printable area in
   addition to the borders of the page.  In addition, the offsets are
   now from the true edge of the page rather than from the edge of the
   printable area.

7) 720 dpi highest quality and 1440x720 dpi highest quality are now
   supported on the new generation Epson printers.

8) Epson printers will now print faster on sparse pages and in pure
   black and white.  This is of particular interest for the
   Ghostscript driver.


Gimp-Print 3.1.4 contains the following improvements over Gimp-Print 3.1.3:

1) Support for the Hewlett-Packard DeskJet 960.

2) Print quality improvements.

3) Some print speed optimizations.

4) Major fix for hybrid Floyd-Steinberg dithering


Gimp-Print 3.1.3 contains the following improvements over Gimp-Print 3.1.2:

1) Completely revamped dithering algorithms.  These algorithms should
   be faster and easier to maintain in addition to better,
   particularly on more advanced printers.  There are additional
   choices for dithering algorithms: an ordered dither, and two kinds
   of Floyd-Steinberg error diffusion.  There are also adaptive error
   diffusion algorithms, in which ordered dithering is used in certain
   circumstances.

2) The user interface has been heavily revamped.  There are currently
   two options, one based on the Gimp native toolkit and one based on
   GTK.  Depending upon user feedback, one will be withdrawn at some
   point.

4) Support for additional Hewlett-Packard printers and media.

3) Bug fixes for Epson printers, the GhostScript driver, and many
   other things.


Gimp-Print 3.1.2 contains the following improvements over Gimp-Print 3.1.1:

1) Better dither quality.

2) Dither is optimized for several different types of images
   (photographs, continuous-tone images such as charts, line art, and
   very fast pure black/white rendering).

3) Tweaking of the GhostScript driver.

4) Epson Stylus Color 440 prints in softweave.  In general, most Epson
   printers are more reliable.

5) Preliminary support for more Hewlett-Packard printers.



Gimp-Print 3.1.1 contains the following improvements over Gimp-Print 3.1.0:

1) Faster dithering speed.

2) Improved support for many Epson Stylus printers.

3) Some UI improvements.

4) Numerous bug fixes.


Gimp-Print 3.1.0 contains the following user-visible improvements over
Gimp-Print 3.0.5, the version distributed with the Gimp 1.1.17:

1) Preliminary support for Canon BubbleJet printers (specifically the
   BJC6000).

2) Preliminary support for the Epson Stylus Color 440/640/740/900 and
   Stylus Photo 750/1200 printers.  These printers should in theory
   work in all modes, although that has not been comprehensively
   tested.  1440 dpi mode on the 900 in particular may not work.
   There is also pre-preliminary support for the Stylus Photo 870 and
   1270 based on the published specifications.  This driver is
   completely untuned for these printers at present.

3) Ability to position the image on the page to the point (1/72", or
   about .35 mm), along with a more accurate depiction of the
   positioning on the page.

4) One-click ability to scale to the image resolution (Gimp 1.1 only).

5) Much better handling of the saved state (printrc file), including
   saving of parameters related to file output.

6) Utilities (in various states of completion) to reconstitute an
   image from a print file.

7) Bug fixes for density in indexed and gray modes, and for excess
   pseudo-black printing in general.

There are additional improvements over Print 2.0.2 (the version
distributed with Gimp 1.1.11 and earlier) too numerous to list here.
