Basic Printer Options

    These options control basic printer functions.

	Printer Model

		Select the printer to use.  It must be supplied in all
		cases.

	Page Size

		Select the paper (media) size to print to.  Some
		printers support custom paper sizes, while others only
		support certain preset sizes.

		Note that this option refers to the actual size of the
		media, not the printable area.  For example, selecting
		A4 refers to actual A4 paper, whatever the margins may
		be.

	Double-Sided Printing

		Otherwise known as "duplex" printing, this is offered
		for printers capable of printing on both sides of the
		page.  In addition to single-sided printing, there are
		two modes of duplex operation: the page may be flipped
		over its long edge (like a book), or over the short
		edge (like a note pad; this is sometimes referred to
		as Tumble).

	Media Type

		Select the kind of paper or other media being printed
		to.  This enables the printer and driver to be set up
		appropriately for the kind of paper in use.

		It is important to set the Media Type to the correct
		value if possible, or if not to a closely related
		medium.	 The printer may need to know what kind of
		media is in use to determine how to feed the paper
		correctly; the driver needs to know in order to select
		the right output settings.

	Media Source

		Select the source of the paper or other media.	This
		option is offered with printers that have multiple
		feeds, for example multiple paper bins, manual feed,
		printing directly to a CD, etc.

	Ink Set

		Select the kind of ink in use in the printer, for
		printers offering different optional inks (for
		example, ink designed for matte paper vs. ink designed
		for glossy paper).

	Borderless

		Select whether to print with borders or not, for
		printers with the capability to overprint the page.
		This is otherwise known as "full bleed".

	Enhanced Gloss

		Some newer printers have a cartridge of "gloss
		enhancer", which helps solve the problem of pigment
		inks having an inconsistent "luster" on glossy paper.
		Use this option to enable use of the gloss enhancer.


Advanced Printer Options

    These options control more advanced printer-specific behaviors.
    Generally it's not necessary to adjust these options.

	Resolution

		Select the resolution to print at (dots per inch).  In
		general, higher resolutions produce better quality, at
		the expense of additional time.

		As a general rule of thumb, on laser printers and
		older inkjet printers resolutions of 300 DPI or
		thereabouts provide draft quality; lower resolutions
		provide economy draft quality and cannot produce solid
		black.	Resolutions of 600 or 720 DPI produce good
		quality output; higher resolutions are useful for very
		high quality image or graphic output.  Newer inkjet
		printers, with smaller ink drop sizes, typically
		require higher resolutions to produce acceptable
		output; in some cases even 1440x720 DPI does not
		produce good quality.

		Users of Epson inkjet printers have another setting
		available: the Quality option can be used to
		indirectly control the printer resolution, among other
		things.	 This offers a simpler way to control output
		quality.

	Ink Type

		Select which subset of inks to use for printing.  For
		example, on a photo printer with additional light cyan
		and light magenta inks, it's possible to print with
		only the standard cyan, magenta, yellow, and black
		inks.

		Normally there is no reason to use any setting other
		than the default.  Reasons why one might want to use
		it include:

		1) Some black inks are not compatible with certain
		   glossy papers.  If the black ink smudges on your
		   paper, you may elect to use an option without black
		   ink (a "composite" setting).

		2) Some inks or paper/ink combinations produce color
		   shifts when the light inks are used.	 If your
		   chosen combination produces unacceptable color
		   shifts or color casts, you may prefer to use the
		   Four Color Standard option, which will generally
		   yield more consistent color at the expense of
		   "grainier" output.

	Printing Direction

		Most inkjet printers can print either unidirectionally
		(the head prints only when moving in one direction) or
		bidirectionally (the head prints when moving in both
		directions).  Bidirectional printing is generally
		faster, since the printer is printing at all times
		rather than wasting much of the time returning the
		head to the starting position.	On many printers,
		however, unidirectional printing produces better
		quality output than bidirectional printing.

		The standard setting for this option adapts to the
		printing resolution.

	Laminate Pattern

		This control is available on some dye sublimation
		printers.


Specialized Printer Options

    These options control unusual printer features.  They may be
    useful in certain circumstances.

	CD Hub Size

		This setting may be used on printers with the
		capability to print directly to a CD.  Depending upon
		your choice of media, you may be able to safely print
		all the way to the inner hole of the CD, or you may
		not be able to print any closer than the hub about an
		inch from the center.

	CD Horizontal Fine Adjustment
	CD Vertical Fine Adjustment

		These settings allow you to shift the position of the
		print while printing to a CD.  If you find that your
		print is not centered on the CD surface, you may need
		to adjust these setting to compensate.

	Interleave Method

		Most inkjet printers create the printed image using
		multiple overlapping passes of the print head.	On
		many printers this function is performed within the
		printer itself and cannot be adjusted, but with many
		Epson inkjet printers (and some others), this is
		performed by the driver or may be specified to the
		printer.  One advantage of the multiple overlapping
		passes is that it can hide small differences between
		the individual print head nozzles, which would
		otherwise be visible as banding.  The different
		interleave methods are different strategies for
		for performing this overlapping; some are better at
		hiding the banding than others.	 They all require the
		same amount of time to print.

		Generally it is not necessary to adjust this; in some
		cases, depending upon your printer, you may find that
		one pattern or another performs better.

		On Epson Stylus Pro printers, this option allows
		specifying different overlap patterns within the
		printer.  In this case, the choice of overlap pattern
		may affect both the printing time and the quality to a
		significant degree.

	Adjust dot size as necessary

		This option is provided on many Epson inkjet printers
		to allow you to use larger ink drops than those
		normally used for the resolution chosen.  This may be
		necessary if you use certain kinds of media or for
		some reason wish to use much more ink (higher density)
		than the default.  It should not be necessary to use
		this option.


Basic Output Controls

	Output Type

		This option specifies whether to print in color or
		black and white/grayscale (using only black inks).
		Black and white printing is generally faster than
		color printing, even if the item being printed is
		entirely black and white.  However, printing with only
		black ink may yield a "grainy" appearance.

	Color Correction

		This selects the choice of color correction method
		within Gutenprint.  The following options are offered:

		* DEFAULT: Select a color correction mode appropriate
		  for the document type being printed.

		* HIGH ACCURACY: Apply optimum color correction to the
		  output to produce the best color quality.  This
		  corrects the hue, brightness, and saturation
		  (brilliance of color).  This is the normal setting
		  to use for printing photographs or graphics if you
		  are not using any external color management.

		* BRIGHT COLORS: Apply color correction to the output,
		  but generate more brilliant colors in some cases.

		* CORRECT HUE ONLY: Apply color correction to the
		  output, but correct only the hue.  This option does
		  not correct brightness and saturation.

		* UNCORRECTED: Do not apply any color correction to
		  the output beyond generating linear output.  This is
		  the best setting to use when utilizing external
		  color management; the high accuracy modes employ
		  correction algorithms that may not work well with
		  color management.

		  Note that if you use color management you should use
		  profiles created with Gutenprint and with the exact
		  settings that you plan to print with.	 Profiles
		  provided by the printer vendor are calibrated for
		  the vendor's driver, which may not be identical to
		  Gutenprint's calibration.

		* DESATURATED: Print in pure grayscale, but using
		  color inks.  The result is somewhat different from
		  printing in black and white using the Output Type
		  option -- the driver may use color ink, which
		  generates smoother output and may yield better
		  results on many papers.

		* THRESHOLD: Convert all colors to fully on or fully
		  off, eliminating all gradual tonal gradations.  The
		  result is that the output will consist of all very
		  pure colors.

		* DENSITY: Correct only the amount of ink ("density"),
		  otherwise performing no correction at all, even for
		  linearity.  Prints made with this option will
		  usually be very dark if no other color management is
		  used.	 This may be useful if you are printing in 16
		  bit precision or are using your own linearization
		  curves.

		* RAW: Perform no correction at all, even for
		  density.  Prints made with this option will be very
		  dark and may bleed (or even puddle!) ink if not used
		  with external color management and linearization.
		  This option may be useful if you are using external
		  color management and linearization to get extremely
		  saturated dark colors by using more ink in
		  individual channels.	It should be used with extreme
		  caution, as it is very easy to damage the printer if
		  you are not careful.

		* PRE-DITHERED: Interpret each pixel as the actual
		  size of each drop to be printed.  Legal values of
		  the drop sizes differ between printers; all printers
		  support 0 (no droplet) and 1 (the largest droplet).
		  Some printers support four levels (0, 1, 2, and 3).

	Image Type

		Specify the option that best describes your print job.
		Your choice here will affect the processing of the
		print job.  Currently available settings are:

		* TEXT: Optimize the output for printing black text
		  with no graphics.  This option results in crisp
		  output and is very fast, but will yield very poor
		  results with any color or grayscale graphics.

		* GRAPHICS: Optimize the output for printing color
		  graphics.  This option will generate smooth, bright
		  output.

		* MIXED TEXT AND GRAPHICS: Optimize the output for
		  printing a mixture of text and graphics.

		* PHOTOGRAPH: Optimize the output for printing
		  photographs.	This option will generate smooth
		  tones and high quality colors, but will be slower
		  than the other options.

		* LINE ART: Optimize the output for printing black and
		  white line art with intricate detail.

		* MANUAL CONTROL: Do not bias the output at all; use
		  only the settings specified by the user.

	Print Quality

		Specify the desired output quality using convenient
		presets.  Where this option is available, Gutenprint
		will automatically adjust the printing resolution and
		other options to generate the desired quality.
		Settings chosen with this option may be overridden by
		explicitly setting other settings, such as resolution.
		Not all printers offer all of these options.
		Currently available settings, in increasing order of
		quality, include:

		* FAST ECONOMY: Use the fastest printing mode
		  available on the printer to print with a minimum
		  amount of ink.  This option will produce very washed
		  out colors and grays, and will typically be
		  extremely grainy and streaky.

		* ECONOMY: Print very rapidly with a reduced amount of
		  ink.	This option will produce washed out colors and
		  grays and will typically be quite grainy and
		  streaky.

		* DRAFT: Print low quality draft output quickly.  This
		  option will typically produce acceptable colors with
		  some amount of grain on plain paper, but will
		  typically produce washed out and grainy output on
		  high quality papers.	On some printers this may
		  employ a special draft mode to print especially
		  quickly at the expense of color fidelity.

		* STANDARD: Print at a normal quality level for text
		  or text/graphics on plain paper or basic inkjet
		  paper.  This option will typically produce
		  acceptable colors, but on high quality papers the
		  output may be grainy or somewhat washed out.	This
		  option may also be useful for printing draft copies
		  of photographs on coated inkjet paper.

		* HIGH: Print final copies of text or text/graphics on
		  plain paper or inkjet paper.	This option will
		  typically produce good color quality, but the
		  quality may not be optimal for photographs on glossy
		  paper.  This option may also be useful for printing
		  draft copies of photographs on glossy paper.

		* PHOTO: Print photographs on glossy paper or very
		  high quality text, text/graphics, or line art on
		  high quality paper.  In the latter application this
		  will produce output close to laser printer quality.
		  On the highest quality premium papers the result may
		  still be a bit grainy.

		* SUPER PHOTO: Print photographs on glossy paper with
		  very high quality.  This will generally yield very
		  good results on high quality premium paper but may
		  be overkill on other papers.	This option is only
		  offered on printers capable of producing very high
		  quality output rivaling traditional photographic
		  printing.  This option may also be appropriate for
		  very intricate line art, where the required
		  resolution may exceed the capabilities of laser
		  printers.

		* ULTRA PHOTO: Print photographs on premium papers
		  with extremely high quality.	This option is only
		  offered on printers capable of producing extremely
		  high quality output matching or exceeding
		  traditional photographic printing.

		* BEST: Print with the best quality available on the
		  printer for the application chosen.  This may be
		  equivalent to one of the other settings; on a very
		  few printers the resolution may exceed that of Ultra
		  Photo mode.

		* MANUAL CONTROL: Do not adjust the settings at all;
		  use only the settings specified by the user.


Basic Output Adjustments

	Saturation

		This option controls the vividness of the output
		color; higher values produce more vivid colors.	 Very
		low values produce muted colors; setting this to zero
		produces gray.

	Contrast

		This controls the contrast of the output.  Lower
		values produce less tonal range in the midtones
		(lighter colors become darker, and darker colors
		become lighter), which may allow for more definition
		in the highlights and shadows.	Higher values do the
		opposite: lighter colors become even lighter, while
		darker colors become even darker.

	Brightness

		This control adjusts the general brightness of the
		print; higher values produce generally lighter output,
		while lower values produce generally darker output.
		White and black are not changed; colors also retain
		their hue and saturation.


Advanced Output Adjustments

    These controls adjust more specialized settings.

	Dither Algorithm

		Since inkjet printers have a very limited set of ink
		colours, most colours have to be produced by mixing
		the available inks.  This is done by printing patterns
		of very small dots, fooling the eye into seeing many
		different shades.  This process is called "dithering";
		several different patterns are available, with
		trade-offs between speed and quality.  The following
		dither algorithms are currently available.  If no
		algorithm is selected, the package chooses an
		appropriate one based on other option settings.	 The
		following algorithms are currently available,
		generally in increasing order of quality.

		* VERY FAST: This algorithm produces very rough,
		  patterned output, but is extremely fast.  This
		  generally yields poor results on modern inkjet
		  printers, particularly models that offer multiple
		  drop sizes, but it can yield very good results on
		  laser printers.  It is a good choice for printing
		  text or line art where no grayscale or color is
		  used, and also works very well when Threshold color
		  correction is used.

		* FAST: This algorithm also produces output with very
		  strong diagonal patterns.  It is also quite fast.
		  It produces somewhat better results on modern inkjet
		  printers that offer multiple drop sizes, but offers
		  no advantages on laser printers or old (generally
		  pre-1999) inkjet printers.

		* ORDERED: This algorithm produces much smoother
		  output than Fast or Very Fast.  It is somewhat
		  slower than those algorithms.	 It utilizes a fixed
		  pattern that is generally free of artifacts.	It is
		  an excellent choice for printing draft copies of
		  business graphics or photographs (charts, etc.) due
		  to its lack of artifacts.

		* ADAPTIVE HYBRID: This algorithm produces slightly
		  smoother output than Ordered dithering, at some cost
		  in performance.  It uses a fixed pattern in
		  highlights to avoid artifacts, and error diffusion
		  at higher densities to reduce noise (which looks
		  like roughness in texture).  It is an excellent
		  choice for printing business graphics due to its
		  lack of artifacts and smooth texture in darker
		  tones.

		* EVEN TONE: This relatively new algorithm yields
		  excellent smoothness in all tones (light, midtone,
		  and shadow), but is considerably slower than most of
		  the other algorithms.	 It is somewhat prone to
		  artifacts, including "tearing", at sharp boundaries.
		  This algorithm is well-suited for printing
		  photographs, but is not as suitable for printing
		  solid-tone graphics.

		* HYBRID EVEN TONE: This algorithm combines Even Tone
		  and Ordered dithering to yield smooth results with
		  fewer artifacts than Even Tone dithering, but is
		  even slower than standard Even Tone.	It uses the
		  fixed pattern of Ordered dithering to break up the
		  artifacts of Even Tone dithering.  The result is not
		  quite as smooth as pure Even Tone, but the reduction
		  of artifacts makes this an excellent choice for
		  photographs or photographs mixed with other
		  graphics.

		* PREDITHERED: This is used in combination with
		  dithering performed outside of Gutenprint or with
		  printers that perform their own dithering.  It
		  assumes that the output is already dithered and
		  generates the appropriate drops based only on the
		  values provided.

	Linear Contrast Adjustment

		The standard contrast control does not adjust the
		black and white points of the output; black in the
		input becomes black in the output, for example.	 The
		result is that if contrast is reduced below 1, the
		contrast in the highlights and shadows is actually
		increased to keep the same total tonal range.

		Gimp-Print 4.2 used a different kind of contrast
		control.  In Gimp-Print 4.2, reducing the contrast
		reduced the contrast throughout the tonal range,
		resulting in white being printed as a light gray and
		black as a dark gray (reducing the contrast all the
		way to zero resulted in a uniform gray).  If contrast
		was increased, the contrast was stretched until the
		output reached either black or white; anything lighter
		always printed as white and anything darker as black.

		Turning this control on selects the old Gimp-Print 4.2
		behavior.  This control is normally turned off.


Output Density Controls

    These controls adjust the amount of ink printed on the page.
    These controls may be used to darken a solid, pure black, or
    eliminate puddling (wet ink left on the paper that does not dry in
    the printer) if needed.  They may also be useful for adjusting the
    behavior of non-standard inks.  They should not be used to lighten
    or darken the print if the black level is correct.

    These controls are adjustments -- they adjust the amount of ink
    relative to the amount selected by the driver for the paper and
    resolution chosen.

	Density Value

		This control adjusts the total amount of ink used in
		all channels (ink colors).

	Black Density Value
	Blue Density Value
	Cyan Density Value
	Magenta Density Value
	Yellow Density Value
	Red Density Value

		These controls adjust the amount of ink used by each
		channel separately.  They may be used to correct the
		amount of ink if needed to strengthen or weaken
		particular colors (e. g. if yellow is too strong or
		too weak).  They should not be used to correct gray
		balance (to produce neutral gray) -- the gray balance
		controls described below should be used for that
		purpose.

	Ink Limit Value

		This control adjusts the maximum amount of ink that
		the driver will use to print with.  This may be used
		if you want to use large amounts of particular inks to
		achieve saturated dark colors, without using excessive
		ink overall that will result in ink puddling or
		spilling within the printer.  This control should be
		used only by people very experienced in inkjet
		printing.


Gray Balance Controls

    These controls adjust the gray balance by changing the amount of
    each color of ink used to produce gray.  For example, if gray
    prints somewhat greenish, it can be corrected by increasing the
    magenta balance.

	Magenta Balance Value
	Yellow Balance Value
	Cyan Balance Value


Output Gamma Controls

    These controls permit adjusting the gamma (exponent) of the
    transfer curves of the individual channels.	 On most printers,
    using a linear ink scale (that is, the amount of ink is directly
    proportional to the input value) will produce very dark
    highlights, as even quite small amounts of ink produce very strong
    colors or gray.  Therefore, the driver uses less ink to produce
    lighter colors.  This does not affect the darkest tones.

    Setting these controls to larger values results in lighter
    highlights and midtones.  These controls are adjustments -- they
    adjust the gamma relative to the gamma chosen by the driver by
    multiplying them together.	For example, if the driver uses a
    gamma value of 2.0 for a particular printer, and you specify a
    gamma of 0.75, the actual gamma used to print will be 1.5.

	Composite Gamma Value

		This control adjusts the gamma of all available ink
		channels when printing in color.

	Black Gamma Value

		This control adjusts the gamma of the black channel
		when printing in grayscale.

	Magenta Gamma Value
	Yellow Gamma Value
	Cyan Gamma Value

		These controls adjust the gamma of individual channels
		when printing on printers that use cyan, magenta, and
		yellow inks (all inkjet printers use CMY inks).	 These
		gamma values are multiplied by the composite gamma
		value and the gamma chosen by the driver.

		Note that the black gamma value is not used when
		printing in color.  That is because the amount of gray
		is computed after the gamma transformation has been
		applied to each channel, and the black channel is
		synthesized from this value.  The GCR Transition Value
		serves as a gamma value for the black channel.	In
		addition, there are no gamma values for the special
		channels for printers that offer additional inks (such
		as red and blue) for similar reasons.

	Red Gamma Value
	Green Gamma Value
	Blue Gamma Value

		These controls adjust the gamma of individual channels
		when printing on printers that use red, green, and
		blue inks (Postscript printers and many dye
		sublimation printers use red, green, and blue colors).
		These gamma values are multiplied by the composite
		gamma value and the gamma chosen by the driver.


Gray Generation Controls

    These controls adjust the conversion of gray into black ink and
    composite (CMY) components.	 When printing in color, light grays
    are often printed using composite inks rather than black ink to
    reduce the speckling effect of dark black dots, while dark grays
    and black are usually printed using black ink to achieve a darker
    black.  With some ink and paper combinations it is necessary to
    use a mixture of black and composite components to achieve maximum
    density and in some cases to achieve neutral grays (some pigment
    black inks are actually brown).

    The effect of using too much or too little black ink varies.
    Typically if too much black ink is used light colors and grays
    will have noticeable speckling from the black drops, while if too
    little black ink is used the midtones and dark tones will be
    washed out and in some cases too much ink will be used leading to
    puddles on the page.  In some cases very large amounts of
    composite ink cause color shifts (darker grays are not neutral).
    Epson Premium Glossy Photo Paper seems to be particularly prone to
    this problem, particularly with dye inks.

    In general, lower-quality papers require more black ink (composite
    inks generally cannot create very dark tones), while higher
    quality papers require less black ink (the composite inks can
    create much darker grays, and the black dots appear much sharper).

    Setting these controls effectively requires a good understanding
    of gray generation and a fair amount of experimentation.  Normally
    it's only necessary to set the paper type correctly to get good
    results.

	GCR Lower Bound Value

		This control specifies the darkest shade of gray at
		which no black ink will be used (i. e. any lighter
		gray component will be printed using only composite
		inks).	Setting this control to zero means that some
		amount of black ink will always be used; setting it to
		1 means that no black ink will ever be used.

	GCR Upper Bound Value

		This control specifies the lightest shade of gray at
		which no composite CMY ink will be used (i. e. this
		level of gray and higher will be printed using only
		black ink).  This control should never be set any
		lower than the GCR Lower Bound Value.  Setting this
		control to zero means that only black ink is used to
		print any gray value; setting this control to a value
		greater than one means that some composite ink will be
		used even when printing black.	The upper limit for
		this control is 5 (in which case black will be printed
		with no more than 20% black ink).

		If you use an ink set requiring use of color inks to
		produce neutral grayscale, you should set the GCR
		Lower Bound Value to zero or a value very close to
		zero and the GCR Upper Bound Value should be greater
		than 1, along with a GCR Transition Value (below) of
		1.  This will ensure that the proportion of black and
		color inks will be close to constant throughout the
		gray range.  With this kind of inkset, it's often
		possible to produce cool or warm toned grayscale
		prints by selecting Desaturated color correction and
		adjusting the GCR Upper Bound Value appropriately.
		For example, if the black ink has a brown (warm) cast,
		increasing the GCR Upper Bound Value will yield a
		cooler tone (less black ink) while decreasing it will
		yield a warmer tone (more black ink).

	GCR Transition Value

		This control specifies the gamma of the GCR transition
		curve.	Setting this control to a smaller value
		results in less black ink being used in the lighter
		portion of the transition region.  This control is
		useful if the black ink is much darker than the
		composite inks in order to produce a smoother
		transition.

	GCR Curve

		This control (only available through the Print plugin
		for the GIMP or other Gutenprint-based applications
		that provide curve capability) allows you to specify
		the conversion curve from gray to black/composite
		precisely.  The horizontal axis of this curve
		represents the gray level (between 0, or no gray at
		all, and 1, or pure black); the vertical axis
		represents the fraction of gray that is converted to
		black (0 means only composite inks, and 1 means only
		black ink).


Output Linearization Curves

    These controls permit adjusting the transfer (linearization)
    curves of each channel precisely.  They are only available through
    the Print plugin for the GIMP or other Gutenprint-based
    applications that provide curve capability.	 All of these controls
    are considered to be for very advanced use only.

	Black Curve
	Blue Curve
	Cyan Curve
	Magenta Curve
	Yellow Curve
	Red Curve
	Green Curve


Detailed Color Correction Curves

    These controls permit adjusting precise characteristics of color
    generation/correction.  They are only available through the Print
    plugin for the GIMP or other Gutenprint-based applications that
    provide curve capability.  All of these controls are considered to
    be for very advanced use only.

    The horizontal axis of all of these curves represents the hue of
    the output.	 Hue is measured as an angle, where 0 and 360 degrees
    represent cyan (or red, if the output inks are RGB).
    Conventionally, these angles are represented as a number between 0
    and 6 (each full number in this scale represents 60 degrees).  The
    specific hue angles for CMY and RGB outputs are as follows:

	     \			Ink Type
	Angle \		RGB		CMY
	-----  \	---		---
	   0	|	Red		Cyan
	   1	|	Yellow		Blue
	   2	|	Green		Magenta
	   3	|	Cyan		Red
	   4	|	Blue		Yellow
	   5	|	Magenta		Green		  
	   6	|	Red		Cyan

	Hue Adjustment Curve
	Luminosity Adjustment Curve
	Saturation Adjustment Curve

		These controls adjust the color correction in High
		Accuracy, Bright Colors, and Correct Hue Only color
		correction modes.  These color correction modes work
		by adjusting the hue, saturation, and luminosity (HSL)
		of the output inks to achieve a more accurate color
		than the color created by simply converting the red,
		green, and blue inputs to cyan, magenta, and yellow
		(or red, green, and blue) inks.	 Note that in this
		printing context luminosity represents darkness
		(amount of light subtracted) rather than brightness.

		The saturation and hue adjustments are first applied.
		The luminosity correction operates on only the color
		component of the output.  Before this correction is
		applied, any gray value is removed, and added back
		after the correction is completed.

		The vertical axis of the Hue Adjustment Curve
		represents an angular difference that is added to the
		base hue value to generate the desired output.	For
		example, if the blue output is purple (too close to
		magenta), adding a negative value to that range of the
		output will bring the blue value more toward cyan
		(less magenta).
		
		The vertical axis of the Saturation Adjustment Curve
		represents an amount by which the saturation is
		multiplied.  At any given hue point it may take on any
		value between 0 (eliminate all color saturation, which
		is equivalent to converting to pure gray) and 4
		(dramatically boost the saturation).  Therefore, this
		adjustment may be used to tone down excessively
		brilliant colors (e. g. if the reds are overly
		brilliant) or brighten up dull colors (e. g. if the
		greens are somewhat dull).  This control has no effect
		if Correct Hue Only is used.  If the saturation value
		is greater than 1, the effect differs depending upon
		whether High Accuracy or Bright Colors mode is
		selected: if Bright Colors is selected, the saturation
		is simply multiplied by the desired value and then set
		to 1 if it would exceed unity.	If High Accuracy mode
		is selected, the amount of saturation boost is
		decreased if the starting saturation is high.

		The vertical axis of the Luminosity Adjustment Curve
		represents an amount by which the luminosity is
		multiplied.  At any given hue point it may take on any
		value between 0 (remove the color component
		altogether) and 1 (leave it as is).  Therefore, the
		function of the Luminosity Adjustment Curve is to
		lighten excessively dark colors rather than to darken
		light colors.  This control has no effect if Correct
		Hue Only mode is used.

	Blue Map
	Cyan Map
	Magenta Map
	Yellow Map
	Red Map

		These curves control how the auxiliary red and blue
		inks are used on the Epson Stylus Photo R800, Stylus
		Photo R1800, and PictureMate family of printers.
		These printers use auxiliary inks to achieve more
		brilliance in the red and blue.	 Other printers in the
		future may use other auxiliary channels, which will be
		made available in similar fashion.

		The vertical axis of each of these controls specifies
		the amount of each ink that should be used to print
		colors of that hue.  These curves are used only to
		generate color; any gray component is removed prior to
		the color generation and added back later.  For
		example, it is possible to specify that a certain
		shade of purple is printed using .2 red ink, .6
		magenta ink, and .5 blue ink (hypothetically).


Specialized Output Controls

    These controls are used to modify the output in very
    printer-specific ways.

	Gloss Level Value

		This control is provided on printers such as the Epson
		Stylus Photo R800 and R1800 that offer a special gloss
		enhancer to produce an even degree of gloss on glossy
		papers regardless of the amount of ink used.  On
		certain glossy papers, areas with high ink coverage
		are a lot glossier than areas with little ink coverage
		(highlights); the gloss enhancer is basically a
		transparent ink that increases the gloss of these
		areas.	This control specifies the desired total
		amount of ink to be printed, including both the normal
		color and black inks and the gloss enhancer.  If the
		amount of normal inks is less than this amount, gloss
		enhancer is used to increase the total amount of ink
		used.


Transition Controls

    These controls adjust the level at which light inks (such as the
    light cyan and magenta inks used on many "photo printers") are
    used in place of the dark inks.  The light inks are used to
    produce a smoother texture (less speckling); the light cyan
    droplets, for example, are individually much less visible than the
    normal dark cyan droplets.

    The ink substitution works by replacing a certain amount of ink by
    a mixture of the light and dark inks.  For example, the dark cyan
    ink may be about 3 times as dark as the light cyan ink, so in
    light areas the cyan may be replaced by 3 times as much light
    cyan.  However, this only works up to a certain point; beyond that
    point, adding more light ink does not significantly increase the
    darkness of the ink.  These transition values adjust the limits at
    which the ink substitution is done; the lower these limits are
    set, the lighter the output at which dark ink is introduced.
    Setting these values lower will generally yield more accurate
    midtone colors at the expense of more speckling in the light
    midtones and highlights.  Generally these values need to be lower
    on low-quality paper than on high quality glossy paper.

	Dark Yellow Transition Value
	Light Gray Transition Value
	Mid Gray Transition Value
	Dark Gray Transition Value
	Gray Transition Value
	Light Cyan Transition Value
	Light Magenta Transition Value
	Light Yellow Transition Value


Foomatic-only options

    This control is available only when using the Foomatic interface.
    It provides a collection of presets appropriate for various
    printing tasks.  It is similar in concept to (and provided the
    inspiration for) the Print Quality and Image Type options provided
    in Gutenprint.

	Printout Mode
